README.md, before:

NOTE: this was built almost entirely by Cline (with Claude 3.7 Sonnet). I also used bolt.new to create the very first bare-bones skeleton of the app. The intent was to test Cline's agentic capabilities. Conclusion: they are quite impressive! "Meesa likes!"

# Blood Pressure Tracker

A mobile application for tracking and visualizing blood pressure readings over time. Built with React Native and Expo.

## Features

- **Record Blood Pressure Readings**: Easily input systolic, diastolic, and heart rate values with date and time
- **View Reading History**: See all your past readings with color-coded status indicators
- **Visualize Trends**: Track your blood pressure trends over time with graphs
- **Edit and Annotate**: Add notes to readings and edit past entries
- **Data Persistence**: All readings are stored locally on your device
- **Platforms Supported**: iOS, Android, Web

## Screenshots


### Record Screen
*Screenshot showing the main recording interface where users can input blood pressure values*

<img src="./assets/images/record.png" width="50%" alt="record">

### History Screen
*Screenshot showing the history view with color-coded readings*

<img src="./assets/images/history.png" width="50%" alt="history">

### Graph Screen
*Screenshot showing the trend visualization with the line chart*

<img src="./assets/images/graph.png" width="50%" alt="graph">


### Settings Screen
*Screenshot showing the settings interface*

<img src="./assets/images/settings.png" width="50%" alt="settings">

## Developer Guide

### Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (v14 or newer)
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) or [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/)
- [Expo CLI](https://docs.expo.dev/workflow/expo-cli/)

### Setup and Running Locally

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/blood-pressure-tracker.git
   cd blood-pressure-tracker
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   npm install
   # or
   yarn install
   ```

3. **Start the development server**

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   # or
   yarn dev
   ```

4. **Running on a device or emulator**

   - Install the Expo Go app on your iOS or Android device
   - Scan the QR code from the terminal with your device
   - Alternatively, press 'a' to open on an Android emulator or 'i' for iOS simulator

### Project Structure

- `app/` - Main application code
  - `(tabs)/` - Tab-based navigation screens
    - `index.tsx` - Record screen (main screen)
    - `history.tsx` - History of readings
    - `graph.tsx` - Visualization of blood pressure trends
    - `settings.tsx` - App settings
  - `_layout.tsx` - Navigation layout configuration
- `assets/` - Images and other static assets
- `hooks/` - Custom React hooks

### Building for Production

To create a production build:

```bash
# For web
npm run build:web
# or
yarn build:web

# For iOS/Android
expo build:ios
expo build:android
```

## Technologies Used

- [React Native](https://reactnative.dev/)
- [Expo](https://expo.dev/)
- [React Navigation](https://reactnavigation.org/)
- [AsyncStorage](https://react-native-async-storage.github.io/async-storage/)
- [react-native-chart-kit](https://github.com/indiespirit/react-native-chart-kit)
- [Lucide Icons](https://lucide.dev/)
- [Expo Linear Gradient](https://docs.expo.dev/versions/latest/sdk/linear-gradient/)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

(docs) update README with instructions for the backend

README.md, after:

NOTE: this was built almost entirely by Cline (with Claude 3.7 Sonnet). I also used bolt.new to create the very first bare-bones skeleton of the app. The intent was to test Cline's agentic capabilities. Conclusion: they are quite impressive! "Meesa likes!"

# Blood Pressure Tracker

A mobile application for tracking and visualizing blood pressure readings over time. Built with React Native and Expo.

## Features

- **Record Blood Pressure Readings**: Easily input systolic, diastolic, and heart rate values with date and time
- **View Reading History**: See all your past readings with color-coded status indicators
- **Visualize Trends**: Track your blood pressure trends over time with graphs
- **Edit and Annotate**: Add notes to readings and edit past entries
- **Data Persistence**: All readings are stored in a PostgreSQL database via the bptracker-backend API
- **Platforms Supported**: iOS, Android, Web

## Screenshots


### Record Screen
*Screenshot showing the main recording interface where users can input blood pressure values*

<img src="./assets/images/record.png" width="50%" alt="record">

### History Screen
*Screenshot showing the history view with color-coded readings*

<img src="./assets/images/history.png" width="50%" alt="history">

### Graph Screen
*Screenshot showing the trend visualization with the line chart*

<img src="./assets/images/graph.png" width="50%" alt="graph">


### Settings Screen
*Screenshot showing the settings interface*

<img src="./assets/images/settings.png" width="50%" alt="settings">

## Backend Integration

This application uses the [bptracker-backend](https://github.com/dudeinthemirror/bptracker-backend) API to store blood pressure readings in a PostgreSQL database. The backend provides RESTful endpoints for creating, reading, updating, and deleting blood pressure readings.

### Important Note for Developers

Before running the application, you must start the bptracker-backend server:

1. Clone the backend repository: `git clone https://github.com/dudeinthemirror/bptracker-backend.git`
2. Follow the setup instructions in the backend repository's README
3. Start the backend server
4. Once the backend server is running, you can start this application

The application is configured to connect to the backend at `http://127.0.0.1:8078`. If your backend is running on a different host or port, update the `API_BASE_URL` in `app/services/api.ts`.

## Developer Guide

### Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (v14 or newer)
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) or [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/)
- [Expo CLI](https://docs.expo.dev/workflow/expo-cli/)
- [bptracker-backend](https://github.com/dudeinthemirror/bptracker-backend) server running

### Setup and Running Locally

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/dudeinthemirror/bptracker.git
   cd bptracker
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   npm install
   # or
   yarn install
   ```

3. **Start the development server**

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   # or
   yarn dev
   ```

4. **Running on a device or emulator**

   - Install the Expo Go app on your iOS or Android device
   - Scan the QR code from the terminal with your device
   - Alternatively, press 'a' to open on an Android emulator or 'i' for iOS simulator

### Project Structure

- `app/` - Main application code
  - `(tabs)/` - Tab-based navigation screens
    - `index.tsx` - Record screen (main screen)
    - `history.tsx` - History of readings
    - `graph.tsx` - Visualization of blood pressure trends
    - `settings.tsx` - App settings
  - `_layout.tsx` - Navigation layout configuration
- `assets/` - Images and other static assets
- `hooks/` - Custom React hooks

### Building for Production

To create a production build:

```bash
# For web
npm run build:web
# or
yarn build:web

# For iOS/Android
expo build:ios
expo build:android
```

## Technologies Used

- [React Native](https://reactnative.dev/)
- [Expo](https://expo.dev/)
- [React Navigation](https://reactnavigation.org/)
- [Axios](https://axios-http.com/) - HTTP client for API requests
- [react-native-chart-kit](https://github.com/indiespirit/react-native-chart-kit)
- [Lucide Icons](https://lucide.dev/)
- [Expo Linear Gradient](https://docs.expo.dev/versions/latest/sdk/linear-gradient/)
- [bptracker-backend](https://github.com/dudeinthemirror/bptracker-backend) - Backend API server

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.
